Democrats hoping for Trump impeachment vote this week
	
Members of the House of Representatives could vote to impeach Donald Trump this week, the chair of the House judiciary committee has said, as Democrats prepare for the final stages of their hearings.

Jerrold Nadler said on Sunday that he wanted to draw up the formal charges against the US president as quickly as possible, but said his party would not decide on what to include in those charges until after another hearing on Monday.

Mr Nadler told CNN’s State of the Union: “My goal is to do it [vote on the articles of impeachment] as expeditiously as fairly as possible depending how long it takes.”

Asked if members could vote this week, he said: “It’s possible, I don’t know.”



“Adam Schiff?.?.?.?is not a relevant witness, he didn’t witness anything,” Mr Nadler said.

If the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives votes to impeach the president as expected, the Republican-controlled Senate will then vote on whether to remove him from office.

Most experts predict Mr Trump will easily survive a Senate vote and, with days to go until a vote in the House, there are few signs that senior Republicans are deserting the president.

Speaking to CNN on Sunday, Mark Meadows, a representative from North Carolina and one of Mr Trump’s most staunch defenders, said he did not expect anyone in his party to vote for impeachment. He added: “If anything, there’s more pressure on the Democrats to come along and vote to exonerate the president in the House.”

Ukraine agrees $5.5bn loan with IMF

The IMF has agreed a new $5.5bn three-year loan programme with Ukraine, a boost for Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky as he prepares to meet Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin for the first time on Monday for peace talks.

The announcement of the deal, the third IMF package for Ukraine since Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea, followed a phone call on Saturday between Mr Zelensky and IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva.

The news broke hours before French president Emmanuel Macron hosts a summit of the so-called Normandy Four group in Paris with the two leaders, along with Germany’s chancellor Angela Merkel aimed at kick-starting the stalled 2015 Minsk peace agreement.

These talks have so far failed to stop fighting between Ukrainian government forces and Russian-backed separatists in the breakaway Donbass region. The IMF’s decision and its timing is “politically driven — to get agreement for Ukraine before the Normandy talks”, said Bluebay Asset Management analyst Timothy Ash.

In recent years, Ukraine has recorded annual growth of 2-3 per cent, an improvement on the 16.4 per cent plunge in gross domestic product seen in the immediate aftermath of the Russian annexation.

Ms Georgieva said she had commended the president for progress in reforms and economic policies. “I assured the president of the IMF’s readiness to support the authorities’ policy agenda to maintain macroeconomic stability and lift the economy to a path of higher, sustainable and inclusive growth,” she said.

Negotiations with the fund have stalled because of a dispute over the IMF-backed nationalisation of commercial lender PrivatBank. The announcement did not explicitly refer to PrivatBank, whose 2016 nationalisation is being challenged in courts by Igor Kolomoisky, the oligarch who backed Mr Zelensky’s presidential campaign this spring.

“The IMF announcement is a critically important signal to investors and the business community demonstrating its seal of approval on Ukraine’s government’s reform process,” said Andy Hunder, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine.

“Macroeconomic stability, an independent central bank and continued IMF co-operation are essential in accelerating Ukraine’s economic growth.”

Mykhaylo Demkiv, financial analyst at Kyiv-based investment bank ICU, said that while the staff-level agreement reached this weekend still needed to be approved by the IMF’s board and was contingent on meeting conditions including the recovery of bad loans in state banks, it was certainly positive for investors.

“I believe this increases the probability of achieving a long-lasting armistice in Donbass,” he said referring to Ukraine’s war-torn industrial heartland.

Ms Georgieva said she and Mr Zelensky agreed that “Ukraine’s economic success depends crucially on strengthening the rule of law, enhancing the integrity of the judiciary, and reducing the role of vested interests in the economy, and that it is paramount to safeguard the gains made in cleaning up the banking system and recover the large costs to the taxpayers from bank resolutions”.

“Effectiveness of the arrangement will be conditional on the implementation of a set of prior actions,” she added.

Welcoming the news and describing his talks with Ms Georgieva as “very constructive,” Mr Zelensky said the new IMF package would help his country “accelerate economic growth, actively eradicate corruption and improve wellbeing of every Ukrainian”.

“We are not satisfied with the current rate of economic growth, therefore, in order to accelerate economic growth, we, together with our international partners, will continue reforms to catch up with our neighbours in terms of economic development and prosperity,” he said in a statement.


US wine buyers turn to auctions to dodge Trump tariffs

American collectors of fine wines have emerged as unlikely winners from President Donald Trump’s trade wars as buyers seek out bottles that are already in the US instead of shipping them from France and risking tariffs.



Mr Zacharia said the number of bids at a Manhattan wine auction he organised on Friday — Zachys’s first since the tariffs were introduced — were about 10 per cent higher than usual. “Some of it is attributable to tariffs already in place, and also the threat of higher tariffs on champagne.”

The Trump administration made its latest tariff threat in response to a technology tax from President Emmanuel Macron’s government that targets Silicon Valley companies operating in France.

Champagne is among $2.4bn worth of goods that France exports to the US annually that it has proposed subjecting to the 100 per cent tariffs.

Wine buyers and producers are concerned that the administration could also increase the existing tariffs on other wines, especially given there are few signs that relations between Paris and Washington are improving.

“It could be a boon for private collectors,” said Justin Gibbs, co-founder of Liv-ex, an online marketplace. “If the [French wine] gateway to America becomes 100 per cent more expensive, then all sorts of people will begin to source locally. One would expect a price adjustment.”

The Trump administration made its latest tariff threat in response to a technology tax from President Emmanuel Macron’s government that targets Silicon Valley companies operating in France.



Jason Boland, president of Spectrum Wine, a California-based auction house, said that tariffs at 100 per cent would be a “game changer”.

Speaking at the Zachys auction, Everett Love, managing partner at wine brokerage RL Liquid Assets, said that import charges at that level would trigger a “run on champagne that’s already here”.

Some collectors are expected to resist the temptation to cash in, however.

Charles Curtis, a former head of wine for Christie’s auction house who now advises collectors, said tariffs could present an opportunity for short-term “flippers”.

But he added that his clients, who include billionaires with multimillion-dollar wine portfolios, tended to hold for the long term. He also noted that buyers had to pay considerable fees at auction.
