Democratic lawyers will on Monday formally present the case for impeachment in front of Mr Nadler’s committee, while Republicans will be given a chance to rebut them.

Following that session, Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, will decide what charges to include in the articles of impeachment. The main accusations will relate to Mr Trump’s alleged attempts to press Ukraine into investigating his political rival Joe Biden.

In a 300-page report published last week, the House committees pursuing the impeachment inquiry said the “evidence is clear” that Mr Trump sought to advance his re-election prospects by pushing Ukraine to dig up dirt on the former vice-president.

But some in the Democratic party are also urging the leadership to include charges related to the Mueller report, which investigated whether the president colluded with Russia to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.

Mr Nadler would not say whether the Russia-related charges were likely to be included. But he said: “The central allegation is that the president put himself above his country, several times; that he sought foreign interference in our elections, several times, both for 2016 and 2020; that he sought to cover it up all the time, and that he continually violated his oath of office.”

He separately told NBC the charges would include “certainly abuse of power, might be obstruction of Congress, it is not co-operating”.

He said he would not allow Republicans on the committee to have a day to call their own witnesses, adding that the list of witnesses they had already provided included Adam Schiff, the Democratic chair of the House intelligence committee.

Auctioneers and brokers are predicting a run on high-end vintages if Washington follows through on a threat issued last week to impose a new round of charges on French imports, including 100 per cent tariffs on champagne.

Jamie Ritchie, chairman of Sotheby’s Wine, said: “We’re going to see retailers and restaurants wanting to secure supply of French wine at pre-tariff prices, and they’re going to look at every avenue.”

Jeff Zacharia, president of wine auctioneer Zachys, said there were early signs that tariffs on wine that the US had already introduced were having an effect on the so-called secondary market. Flat wines were subjected to a 25 per cent import charge in mid-October.

Champagne is among $2.4bn worth of goods that France exports to the US annually that it has proposed subjecting to the 100 per cent tariffs.

Wine buyers and producers are concerned that the administration could also increase the existing tariffs on other wines, especially given there are few signs that relations between Paris and Washington are improving.

“It could be a boon for private collectors,” said Justin Gibbs, co-founder of Liv-ex, an online marketplace. “If the [French wine] gateway to America becomes 100 per cent more expensive, then all sorts of people will begin to source locally. One would expect a price adjustment.”