With so much at stake in the upcoming election, young people are also opting to vote tactically. The constituency of Southampton Itchen is home to students from two universities — the University of Southampton and Solent University — and many graduates stay on to work in the city, which is a major port.

In 2017, the Conservative candidate, Royston Smith, won by 31 votes, making it a prime target for Labour in the December election. Many young residents in the city believe the youth vote will swing the seat to Labour.

“I changed my registration from my parent’s house in Hereford to Itchen, just so that we have a bigger chance at knocking the Tories off the bench,” said Imogen Williams, a 24-year-old computer programmer who works in Southampton. “I just want to stop Brexit, and I know that if Labour wins and calls a second referendum people will vote differently, now that they have actual facts about what a monumental disaster Brexit would be for our country.”

Ms. Williams’s sister, Martha, a student at Southampton University, said many of her friends would be voting for the first time in the upcoming election and were divided between Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

“We hope that this is just an overreaction to current events and that international business can constructively forge ahead,” Ms. Joseph said.

The protests, which began in June in opposition to a bill that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China, has hurt the tourism and retail sectors, pushing the city’s economy into recession.

In recent weeks, the violence has escalated, with protesters intensifying their efforts to vandalize businesses they associate with hostility to the movement. The police shot an antigovernment protester last month, inflaming tensions. Then, in some of the worst violence, universities became battlefields, with black-clad students hurling gasoline bombs, throwing bricks and aiming arrows at the riot police, who shot rubber bullets and fired tear gas in return.
Many demonstrators acknowledge that a compromise with the government is unlikely, despite recent victories. Mrs. Lam, the city’s leader, who is under pressure from Beijing to restore order without weakening the government’s position, has brushed aside their demands and has warned that the mayhem could “take Hong Kong to the road of ruin.”

Government officials have cast the demonstrations as primarily centered on economic issues, arguing that vast inequality in Hong Kong has exacerbated anger among the city’s youth. They rolled out emergency measures recently to counter the effects of the turmoil on the economy, including providing electricity subsidies to businesses and expanding job training for young people.

The authorities have justified their efforts to crack down on the movement by saying that protesters are endangering public safety. On Sunday, the police said they had found a 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol, five magazines, 105 bullets and two ballistic vests, as well as fireworks, among other items, during a series of early morning raids.

Senior Superintendent Steve Li of the Hong Kong Police said early in the day that officers had received information that the firearm and fireworks would have been used on Sunday to create chaos.
