Yiwei Zha (Jonathan)
Professor Elaine Barlas
WR111 C1 
24 November 2019
 
To what extent, can the family matters affect a child’s growth?
In Montana 1948, Larry Watson writes a story about the narrator, David Hayden, when he was a child. The young David accidentally knows that Marie, the “babysitter”, is sexually assaulted by his father’s brother, Uncle Frank. Knowing this case, Wesley, David’s father as well as the sheriff of the county, try to cover this scandal by telling Frank not to do that again. However, Marie dies. And David witnesses Frank came to their house which commits a murder. Wesley arrests Frank and locks him in basement. The grandpa tries to send people to Wesley’s house to save Frank which frightens Gail, Wesley’s wife, and David. David protects his mother by finding his father and Len. Finally, Wesley determines to send Frank in Jail. But Frank commits a suicide before that. During the whole case, David knows a lot of something he doesn’t know before. It’s a story about coming of age. David Hayden has grown up into maturity because he develops the awareness of sex; he understands his father better; and he becomes braver when facing something serious after experiencing Marie’s case.
David develops the awareness of sexuality due to Marie’s case. When Gail, David’s mother, argues with Wesley about Frank’s sexual harassment during the treatment, she is very emotional and says “[Frank] fondles their breasts…” “[Frank] put things into these girls… your brother I believe has inserted his, his penis into some of these girls”(36) And when David hears this, he is “ shock of hearing this about Uncle Frank.”(36) Gail uses some words related to sex directly and the young David learns these words from his mother’s mouth which develops his understanding towards sex. Also, when David is alone at home to look after Marie, he “went to the bed and held Marie’s shoulders until the coughing subsided.” (20) After he leaves the room, he doubts “Was the sweat mine or hers?” (21). Since David once says “I loved her [Marie]”(14), the close body contact with the woman he beloved is a new experience for the young David. And as he is “sweating”, he is nervous about this contact which shows his awareness of sexuality from these details.
David gets to know how difficult his father’s job is since the sheriff needs to execute justice. Before Marie’s case happens, David thinks his father’s job is easy when he is introducing his father as he states “All of which made my father’s job a relatively easy one.” “[Wesley] had a gun but he never carried it, on duty or off.”(5) Since a sheriff should be a position with danger, Wesley never brings his gun which means his job is not exited or dangerous which disappoints David. 
However, in the morning of sending Frank to jail, David feels sympathetic about his father’s decision toward Frank as a sheriff. He sees Wesley’s tired appearance with “hair uncombed”, “beard unshaven”, “eyes ringed with dark circles”, and “shoulders slumped”.(149) He says “I finally realized what this day meant to my father: This was the day he would put his only brother in jail.” “The best consolation I [David] could manage was, ‘Not a very happy day, I guess.’” (150) From David’s description of Wesley’s physical state, we can see that David knows his father is tired about Frank’s case. David’s saying shows he knows what his father’s decision means and tries his best to console his father after knowing it is tired and tough for his father to determine. Comparing the two part of the novel, we can see the huge difference in David’s attitude towards his father’s job. He changes his thought and thinks his father’s job is difficult when determining whether to execute justice towards his own brother.

As a child, David is brave when facing something serious. When Marie dies, David should sleep at that time. However, David goes to see his father and tells his father “[David] I was pretty sure it was Uncle Frank. Then I go out and watched him go down the tracks…I’m pretty sure it was him.”(89) As a child, David is supposed to be frightened by Marie’s death and he should be very silent at that time due to the fear. But, as for David, he firmly tells his father about what he saw this afternoon which lets his dad to have a further investigation about Marie’s case. It’s because of David who helps dig out a deeper result of Marie’s death. David shows his bravery in providing his testimony. Besides, to save Frank from Wesley’s house, Grandpa Hayden sends some people to Wesley’s home. David doesn’t feel afraid of the threats of Grandpa’s people. Instead, he said to his mother “If you [Gail] fire it you really have to brace yourself.” “Why don’t you let me —” (127) In his words, he asks his mother for the gun and tries to protect his mother by using that gun. His simultaneous petition shows he is brave at that time.

Nevertheless, David is naïve sometimes as well. When Frank is locked in the basement by Wesley, the fear of David “were not strong enough finally to stand up to my boy’s [David’s] hunger for chocolate cake.”(115) But, it should not be the evidence which shows David is not mature. No matter David is mature or not, people can be hungry if some delicious foods are attracting them. 

David Hayden becomes more sophisticated after experiencing this family scandal. He is braver, more considerable, and sensitive to sexuality. To analyze David’s growth, we can clearly know how a child’s growth path looks like and understand children’s mental world better. In this novel, what family encounters makes David to grow into maturity. But, is that the only case? What will happen if other kid encounters these evil things? 

Work Cited
Watson, Larry. Montana 1948. Milkweed Editions, 2010.
